+++
title = "Does architecture in Node.js is worth for real?"
date = "2020-07-15"
author = "Jakub Olan"
description = "When I was building my last corporate project where I've realized some things on architecture and development of projects in TypeScript."
+++

Let's start from short-time story, last time I was building an project which was social platform - that's standard on this market a lot of people are building that without bigger sense, just normal contract. This platform was planned to be build in monolith and in this case some reatrded lead wanted to write front-end in Mustache + Express instead diversed API and Client, that's fine but... and now we're coming to context - architecture in Node.js that part that was interesting to me last time, I've done deep reasearch, practiced a lot of thing - maybe you can say that I'm a idiot because architecture is most important part of project - IT'S NOT! That's not a reason because maybe I'm not very familar with DDD, SOA or other shit. DDD was invented generally for enterpise usage, and at fact it increases complexity of code. You can say that, It's not increases complexity if you know how to use it - you're right, but when you look at it from other side, it does exactly what I've said a moment before.

Node.js isn't a good language for corporate usage and implementation of software architecture, the most software architects are designing systems based on Java/CPP because these languages needs architecture for real to keep source code readable, simple and clean. In TypeScript achitecture doesn't seems to be very important since that's language invented for scripts not building real software, in this case you cannot experience an real OOP - just little imimation of it, of course you can still use SOLID, DDD, Microservice and other things that you like. In my opinion Node.js going nowhere and Golang seems to be realiable solution for building bigger systems (that ones which you're trying to build using Node.js with your fucking DDD).

I understand implementation of DDD in Rust or Java for example, because in that cases this architecture is really helpful for building bigger projects, and I've tried to use DDD in Rust - It have worked, and was helpful - but when I was using it with Node.js it was more like introducing complexity to code instead simplifing codebase, yeah... I know that architecure isn't about simplifing a code - it's about introducing strict code workflow. That's only my personal opinion, I'm not an expert and corporate project developer because I'm in love with code of startups where everything is well documentated and keeped in simple, readable way without for example implementation of DDD. There only software design which works well with Node.js is TDD, since software is TypeScript is easy to understand and yet easy to predict and write tests.

> In shorten words I just wanna say, fuck people who are using DDD in Node.js.

I'll not find a job after that words, I'm sure <3
