+++
title = "Real World HR, Collection of best quotes"
date = "2020-07-25"
author = "Jakub Olan"
description = "Collection of best interview questions kek"
+++

> Sometimes I woneder... Is that problem with me or maybe the other comapnies...

I was searching job at **Node.js Developer** position, which would be compatible
with my technology stack and give me some freedom in tools that I'm using. You
can say you don't really wanted that job, I'll answer you... for sure,
programming is something that doing in free time, I don't need to earn on
programming since I have other income options but I would like to do programming
my actal condition allows me to laugh at shitty companies.

# Soft Questions

> Describe a place where you worked before...
> [Generally a bit toxic description of my past company, because they was doing shitty things af and I'm an honest person]
> Fail an interview XD

My life is so fucking good mate, idk what are people thinking but when somebody is doing something in really bad way, I have no mercy for such companies since they are producing real shit, and then when I say such things about my past position you're failing interview because you told the truth, funny. I love IT!

# The Ecosystem Questions

That's always funny, because I love when people asking things like - what
library you're using to build RESTful APIs - you response `connect` just to be
curious about response and then failing interview because company using
`express`. (real story tho)

> R: Which library would you use to perform HTTP Request in Node.js?
>
> Me: `got`
>
> R: We're using `request` sadly.

Yeah, let's use an unmaintained libray! Because most of community has been using
for 10 years, that mean something is good and changes to something fresh will
make only more problems.

> Me: Are you using TypeScript?
>
> R: No we're not using TypeScript, we're using ES6+.
>
> Me: TypeScript compiles to ES3+ so that's a great option for developing secure
> and stable applications since you additionally gets a cool development toolkit
> and strong typing.
>
> R: We've thinked about introducing TypeScript but it don't save us from
> runtime errors so it's useless.

### The DDD Questions

My favourite selection of questions on Node.js position, since from my reseach
most of market don't really know what methods are most productive for specific
project, and there can occur event called **Overhype** where some companies
using Microservices everywhere other ones using DDD everywhere.

> R: Are you famillar with DDD since we're using this in every project.
>
> Me: I'm famillar, but DDD should be not used for every kind of project, it
> just increases complexity in most cases, it's JavaScript not OOP Language,
> it's an simple scripting language.
>
> R: Thanks for reponse, let's move to another topic.

Idk, I know I could pass this interview because that was piece of cake, but for
real I don't want to collaborate with company that don't have reason for actions
and decision they take. The DDD is something that I hate most in Node.js since
it introduces multiple enterpise patterns - it's okay to implement it when
codebase is going to be really big, but when somebody implement it to mid-sized
projects it's just like a suicide in my opionion.
